In this clip let's take a look at access keys and passwords and
how they relate to accessing our resources.
Now access keys first, all access to any resource that we have in our account,
that's going to be utilized through an API call.
Now as we know, API calls are certainly carried out when I use the console,
but if I'm using a program, automation, a script I've written,
I'm going to need an active access key linked to a IAM user to have
that process actually be carried out successfully.
So each user will have an access key ID and each user can have a
secret access key so if you want to do automation,
a secret access key is what you need.
This automation through the command prompt or through a program.
After creation of a user account, the access key is active, it's good to go.
And the access key and the secret access key are linked together,
like a public/private key pair.
Say you were doing encryption and using that public/private key pair.
Now if an access key is lost,
then go into the IAM console and create a new key for that user.
One of the best practices suggested by Amazon is to manage your access keys,
perform access key management.
What do they mean by this process?
Well they mean that you should rotate your access keys for all of
your IAM users for the highest level of security.
So each user can have two active access keys and the access key,
once deleted, there's no access, it's been revoked,
and once it's deleted the key is gone forever.
So let's look at this best practice in a bit of detail.
How would I do this?
So in the process of rotating access keys,
the first thing I'm going to do is create a second access
key for a particular user or users.
Then I'll have to update the applications to use the new key,
so the user won't be locked out,
then I'll have to change the state of the first key to be inactive,
then I'll validate that my applications are still working,
that they're linked with the new key,
and then I'll delete the inactive access key.
So there would be some automation that would have to be crafted using
the APIs to carry out this task or a third party tool.
So that's the access key overview.
Let's look at passwords.
Now your password management might mirror what you do on-prem,
defining, for example, the minimum password length.
Can the user set their own password?
When does the password expire?
Can they reuse their passwords?
Is there a complexity rule that you want to follow?
And if the password expires, what's the procedure to actually get a new password?
Some of these tasks could be controlled through an IAM policy.
Now AWS has some pretty handy tools to manage our passwords for our
end users and we start off with the IAM console.
We can get a lot of information from the IAM console,
we can get information on the access keys,
the timestamp, when the key was last used,
where did they actually carry out that authentication,
what region were they in, what service did they try to access?
I could also rotate my keys using the IAM console as well.
Now if I want more automation I can use AWS CloudTrail,
CloudTrail tracking every API call for my account so I
can get a great amount of detail.
From CloudTrail I can view the credential report and I can
identify the user credentials that are not in use,
I can see last time the person logged in,
when did they last change their password or access key.
In addition I can use the access advisor,
which is actually part of IAM and get the date and hour
when an IAM role last accessed an AWS service through the
permission granted by a policy.
If I want to get even fancier,
I can use SNS and actually get notified when changes occur.
In fact,
I could SNS and cloud watch together in conjunction with
CloudTrail to actually have full automation that when there
was a change I want to know about it.
So credential best practices,
if I'm going to look at the aspect of keys or passwords,
when do I have to use one or the other?
If I'm at the console, I need a password.
If I am using an API or using APIs through the command line interface, I'm going to need access keys.